---
title: Board
---

== Board of Directors ==
The board can be contacted via email at [mailto:board@open-bio.org board@open-bio.org] (or in case of mailing list problems, try [mailto:obf-board@googlegroups.com obf-board@googlegroups.com] as a fall back), and can be reached via [https://twitter.com/OBF_news Twitter @OBF_News].

'''President'''
:; [http://lappland.io/ Hilmar Lapp] : Representing [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]], Director of Informatics at the [http://genome.duke.edu/ Center for Genomic and Computational Biology] (GCB) at Duke University.

'''Treasurer'''
:; <span class="plainlinks">[http://www.hutton.ac.uk/staff/peter-cock Peter Cock]</span> : [[bp:Biopython|Biopython]] core developer, bioinformatician at the [http://www.hutton.ac.uk/ James Hutton Institute]. [[BOSC 2016]] co-chair.

'''Secretary'''
:; [http://hpcbio.illinois.edu/people Chris Fields] : [http://bioperl.org BioPerl] core developer, Associate Director of HPCBio, Carver Biotechnology Center and The [http://www.igb.illinois.edu/ Institute for Genomic Biology] at the [http://www.uiuc.edu/ University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign].

'''At-large members'''

:; <span class="plainlinks">[https://github.com/kcranston Karen Cranston]</span>: Research Scientist, Duke University, and PI, Open Tree of Life.

:; <span class="plainlinks">[http://www.linkedin.com/in/nomiharris Nomi Harris]</span> : Project Manager at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. [[BOSC 2016]] co-chair.

:; <span class="plainlinks">[https://twitter.com/hlwiencko Heather Wiencko]</span> : Software engineer at [https://www.hostedgraphite.com Hosted Graphite].

:; <span class="plainlinks">[https://twitter.com/yoyehudi Yo Yehudi]</span> : Software engineer and community outreach for [http://intermine.org/ Intermine].

:; <span class="plainlinks">[https://twitter.com/gedankenstuecke Bastian Greshake Tzovaras]</span> : Co-founder of [https://openSNP.org openSNP] and Director of Research at [https://www.openhumans.org Open Humans].

=== Past Board Members ===
; [[bp:Ewan Birney|Ewan Birney]] : ''Former OBF President''.  [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]] core developer.  Currently Co-Director of the [http://www.ebi.ac.uk EBI].
; Andrew Dalke : ''Former Secretary''. Represented [http://www.biopython.org Biopython] & [http://www.dalkescientific.com Dalke Scientific].
; [[bp:Steven Brenner|Steven E. Brenner]] : ''Former At-large member''. [http://compbio.berkeley.edu Professor] at University of California, Berkeley.
; [[User:Kdahlquist|Kam Dahlquist]] : ''Former At-large Member''. [http://myweb.lmu.edu/kdahlqui/ Associate Professor] at Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles.
; [[bp:Chris Dagdigian|Chris Dagdigian]] : ''Former Treasurer''. [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]] co-founder & OBF sysadmin. Employed by [http://www.bioteam.net the BioTeam].
; [[bp:Jason Stajich|Jason Stajich]] : ''Former OBF President. [[bp:BioPerl|BioPerl]] core developer. Currently [http://stajichlab.fungalgenomes.org Professor] at [http://www.ucr.edu/ University of California, Riverside].

== Board of Directors Meetings ==

'''Upcoming Board Meeting:'''
* [[Minutes:2018_Mar_ConfCall| Conference call Mar 16, 2018]]

'''Minutes of past Board Meetings:'''
* [[Minutes:2016_Oct_ConfCall| Conference call Oct 4, 2016]]
* [[Minutes:2015_May_ConfCall| Conference call May 12, 2015]]
* [[Minutes:2014_Nov_ConfCall| Conference call Nov 18, 2014]]
* [[Minutes:2013_Dec_ConfCall| Conference call Dec 12, 2013]]
* [[Minutes:2013_Apr_ConfCall| Conference call Apr 9, 2013]]
* [[Minutes:2012_Nov_ConfCall| Conference call Nov 13, 2012]]
* [[Minutes:2012_Sep_ConfCall| Conference call Sep 11, 2012]]
* [[Minutes:2011_Dec_ConfCall| Conference call Dec 13, 2011]]
* [[Minutes:2011_ConfCall| Conference call Nov 8, 2011]]
* [[Minutes:2010_ConfCall| Conference call Oct 5, 2010]]
* [[Minutes:2009_ConfCall|Conference call Dec 14, 2009]]
* [[Minutes:2009 BOSC Meeting| 2009 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2008_ConfCall|Conference call Nov 19, 2008]] 
* [[Minutes:2008 BOSC Meeting| 2008 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2007 BOSC Meeting| 2007 BOSC Meeting]]
* No Board Meeting was held in 2006. 
* [[Minutes:2005 BOSC Meeting| 2005 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2004 BOSC Meeting| 2004 BOSC Meeting]]
* [[Minutes:2002 BOSC Meeting| 2002 BOSC Meeting]]

== Joining the Board ==

According to the bylaws, "''Nominations for the Board of Directors may be made by the general membership at any time throughout the year by email to any Board Member.''" (see Art. IV.1)  The Board tries on an ongoing basis to create opportunities for members of the community to serve, while also ensuring stability of the Board. Opportunities for filling a seat, either through expansion of the Board, or by replacing a Board member whose term expires, arise in most years, and the Board is always interested to hear from volunteers from the community interested in serving. 

Please see general [[Board/Expectations|expectations for Board members]].

''The Nominating Committee, which used to be described here until recently, no longer exists as a fixed entity. It was removed in the [https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/pull/28 Oct 2016 revisions to the Bylaws].''