---
title: BOSC 2018
---

[https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/ BOSC 2018] will be June 25-30, 2018 in Portland,
Oregon as part of [https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/ a bioinformatics community
conference] co-hosted with the Galaxy Community Conference. More details will be
forthcoming after [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/BOSC_2017 BOSC 2017].

BOSC has been a part of ISMB since its inception, and we greatly value our
relationships with the ISCB management and the ISMB community. We are very much
looking forward to [http://www.open-bio.org/wiki/BOSC_2017 BOSC 2017] at
[https://www.iscb.org/ismbeccb2017 ISMB/ECCB], which is shaping up to be an
exciting and successful meeting.

Because of our continuing focus on
[https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/blob/master/Travel_fellowships.md broadening
and deepening the BOSC community], we've been exploring ways to reach those in
the bioinformatics community who aren’t already part of the audience attracted
by ISMB. As part of
that exploration, we have looked at other organizations and conferences that
have been successful at establishing a strong and growing community of
participants. One such conference is the [https://gcc2017.sciencesconf.org/ Galaxy Community Conference (GCC)].

After much discussion and planning, we'll be helping organize a
[https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/ a bioinformatics community conference] in 2018
that includes both GCC and BOSC. We hope this will help serve the open
bioinformatics community in a few ways:

- It creates a conference with an explicit focus on development, support and
  maintenance of the interoperable software tools and libraries that enable
  modern scientific research. We believe the only sustainable way to provide the
  infrastructure needed for high throughput analyses is to build cooperating,
  open, diverse communities of programmers and biologists. This conference is
  where we hope to build and deepen this community.

- It includes two dedicated training days by members from both the
  [https://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Main_Page Open Bioinformatics Foundation] and
  Galaxy communities. This enables focused training on useful tools and approaches,
  making the conference attractive to anyone who wants to expand their skills.

- There will be two integrated days of collaboration following the conference,
  merging [https://www.open-bio.org/wiki/Codefest_2017 BOSC Codefest] and
  [https://gcc2017.sciencesconf.org/resource/page/id/10 Galaxy's Developer and User Hackathon Days].
  We hope the integrated collaboration days following training and the
  conference talks will allow new and existing members of the community to
  attend and build working relationships.

- We're hosted at a great venue in Portland, Reed College,
  providing an affordable and fun experience for anyone who wants to attend.

We would like to emphasize that this is an experiment for us and we aren’t looking
to sever our strong ties with ISMB. We're planning to evaluate the combined GCC
and BOSC experience in 2018 and welcome community feedback on all of these
thoughts and plans.